This document describes the different levels of players in
LPmud 3.0, as well as the procedures to manipulate these levels.

Levels:
=======

Mortal.  
This is the ordinary player that has no special powers. Mortals are
level 0 regardless of their advancement in the game.

Apprentice. 
This is what the mortal becomes when he has reached a certain point in
the game. The apprentice is fitted with abilites to read the
documentation and to look at the existing domains and their
descriptions. He is then expected to learn the wizard rules and some
basics of how the game works before appying for membership in a
domain. Apprentice wizards are level 1.

Pilgrim
A pilgrim is a VIP of some kind, usually a visiting Keeper or Arch
from another MUD. He has been granted access to the mud in order to
participate in discussions and look around in general. A pilgrim has
no building capabilities but can read all relevant information. A
pilgrim is level 2-9.

Wizard. 
There are two types of wizards. The most common kind is the domain
wizards, i.e. a wizard who has joined a domain. The other kind is an
independant wizard who works on his own. This last kind of wizard is
very rare and should have good reasons for not joining a domain before
being granted this special status. A wizard has been given a home
directory and have the ability to create LPC programs. A wizard may
leave the chosen domain at any time, but this action reduces them to
apprentice level until he decides to join a new domain. A wizard is
level 10 to 19, but starts at level 15.

Mage.  
A mage is essentially the same as a Wizard. However, he has been
promoted to his higher level in recognition of special abilities or
favour done. A mage can apply to join a domain if he so wishes.
A mage is level 20 to 29.

Lord. 
A lord manages a domain. He acts as the administrator of a project
with several wizards attached to it. The lord decides who is allowed
to be a member of his domain and not. Apprentices applies for
membership and may be accepted only if the lord wishes to. The lord
can expel any of his domain members if he decides that that action
becomes neccesary. An apprentice becomes a wizard at acceptance into a
domain and reverts to apprentice status if he is expelled. A mage can
be expelled from the domain but a lord, but he won't revert to
apprentice level. Instead he is moved to the independant domain
automatically. A lord may also increase or decrease the level of a
domain member without expelling him, but only within his type.
However, if an archwizard or keeper is a member of a domain, the lord
has no power over his level, he only decides wether the archwizard or
keeper is a member of the domain or not. A lord is level 30 to 39 with
35 as the starting level.

Archwizards. 
An archwizard is responsible for a certain administrative function in
the game. The power of an archwizard is almost unlimited. Archwizards
are able to promote and demote players of all types as long as both
the old and new level is lower than the lowest archwizard level. Their
function in the game is entirely of administrative character and they
are not leaders of domains. One archwizard has the responsability of
creating new domains and appointing new lords, even though all have the
power to do this. Archwizard levels are 40 to 49.

Keepers. 
The administrators of the game are called keepers. They are naturally
able to do anything a lower leveled wizards can do. It is they who
handle the basic administrative functions of they game, add and remove
archwizards and handle some other administrative functions in the
game. A keeper is level 50.
