NAME
        levels - show the possible level descriptions for many concepts
 
SYNOPSIS
        levels
        levels <concept>
 
DESCRIPTION
        With this command you can see the possible descriptions of many
        concepts related to the state of a player in the mud. The following
        are currently described:
        
        Stats & experience:
        
        - mortal
        
          The possible titles mortal players can have.
        
        - statstr statdex statcon statint statwis statdis
     
          These will describe the possible levels for your stats, respectively
          your strength, dexterity, constitution, intelligence, wisdom and
          discipline. The command "stats" will show yours.
          
        - compstr compdex compcon compint compwis comdis
        
          These describe the terms that you get when you compare your stats
          with another living using the "compare" command.
 
	- statimprove
	
	  Describes your total growth in experience since you logged in today.
 
	- brute
	
	  Describes the ratio between your combat and quest experience.
 
        Vitals:
        
        - health mana
        
          Describes respectively your physical and mental health.
        
        - fatigue panic
         
          Describes how tired and panicky you are.
        
        - stuffed soaked intox headache
        
          Describes respectively how much you have eaten, how much you have
          drunk, how intoxicated you are and the headache levels.
 
        - encumberance
        
          The levels that indicate how much you carry.
 
        Weapons & armours:
        
        - armour
        - weaponcond weaponrust
  
          These describe the various states of wear of a weapon or armour.
 
        General:
        
        - goodalign evilalign
        
          Describe the alignment levels for people of good or evil alignment.
        
        - femalebeauty malebeauty
  
          Describe the beauty levels for females and males.  
 
OPTIONS
        [none]  - see a list of the available concepts
 
        concept - Show the possible descriptions for this concept
 
SEE ALSO
        stats, skills, vitals
