APPLYING TO BE A WIZARD
=======================

Wizards are the creators of a mud. They are responsible for the guilds and areas
that players can explore and enjoy. It is the goal of many players to eventually
become a wizard to join the creators and help build the lands. Players with
enough experience may apply for wizardhood.

Wizardhood is final, in some respects. After having been granted immortality,
never again will a mortal body possess the same name as that wizard.

For more information on what would be required of you as a wizard, please read
"help wizhood".

Requirements to apply for wizardhood
------------------------------------

The requirements to become a wizard are few:

- an age of at least one week; to become a wizard, it is important to know the
  lands of Genesis in order to understand what will fit into it
- a mortal level of Great Adventurer or higher
- an upstanding reputation and trustworthy history
- a desire to create

No previous coding experience is necessary. We will teach you.

Applicants who have reached the mechanical requirements of age and mortal level
may seek out the wizard application room in the Tower of the Realms. In this
room, there is a board on which notes may be posted. Only Archwizards, Lieges,
and the teams of the Arch of Domains and Players are able to read the notes
posted on the board.
 
Exceptions to the mechanical requirements of becoming a wizard may be made by
mailing an appeal to "aod" (Arch of Domains) from any post office.

Writing an application
----------------------

If you are interested in applying to become a wizard, certain details should be
included in your post on the wizard application board:

- a list of your second characters, plus any previous ones you've played. This
  will be held in confidence, and only those who are Archwizards, Lieges, and
  Arch helpers may know this information. If you are not comfortable with this,
  a supplemental mail to the AoD will suffice in most cases.
- your experience with LPC, object-oriented programming, or other programming.
- a list of previous LPmuds you've played/wizzed on.
- in order of preference, the domains (3) you'd like to work in.
- what you feel is the most interesting area in Genesis from a mortal view.
- what you feel is something which requires changing or fixing in Genesis.
- a sample of your ideas.
- the amount of time that is available to you, in hours/week.
- the consistency and stability of those logins (will you only have twenty
  hours/week available to you for 2 months, and then not know?).

Writing skills are important for a wizard, as well as the ability to work
accurately and with care for detail. You are strongly advised to show this in
your application as well. While your credentials may be impressive, if the
resume is an ill-formatted text littered with misspellings, most employers will
not even bother to read it.

Creating a wizard character
--------------------------------------------

We understand that letting go of a hard-earned mortal character isn't something
one wants to do lightly. So when you apply to become a wizard, you are able to
use any character you have or you may create a new one just for the purpose of
becoming a wizard. 

