WIZARDHOOD
==========

For some players, endless killing, looting, questing, and exploring isn't
enough. A desire resides within them to create. That desire can be expressed in
various ways:

- personal history and philosophy (creating a more unique persona)
- guild councils and positions of import (creating an esteemed guild)
- librarians and book-writers (creating and expanding a roleplaying structure)
- wizardhood (creating something within the bounds of imagination, rules, and
  underlying structure of this world).

While all of these methods are fundamental to expanding the depth and detail of
this realm we call Genesis, only wizardry allows a character the opportunity to
(possibly) have an impact on every single mortal that walks the realms.

If you are interested in becoming a wizard, please read "help wizapp".


Expectations of All Wizards
---------------------------

- All wizards are bound by a common set of rules, including requirements that 
  greatly reduce the amount of interaction with mortals. All wizards are
  expected to be familiar with these rules.

- All wizards are expected to have their wizard character as their primary 
  character. For new wizards, this means that even though a secondary character
  may have been the one that gained immortality, the wizard character is now
  the one that receives the most devotion of time. A provision may be made for
  certain situations.


Expectations of New Wizards
---------------------------

- New apprentice wizards are expected to join a domain. This is typically done
  by contacting the Liege of the domain, either before or after being promoted
  to wizardry. Every coding wizard belongs to a domain! For information about
  the interests and projects of each domain, please visit the domain offices
  in the Tower of the Realms.

- While waiting to join a domain, the new wizard learns how to use (and read!)
  the documentation available to all wizards.

- When a new wizard joins a domain, the learning process continues. A mentor
  in the domain is assigned to help the new wizard get settled, as well as
  teach him the principles of coding in the game. A lot of time will
  naturally have to be spent on your own, but the personal mentor will 
  always be available to help with questions. The domain Liege as well as
  the other members of the domain - though often busy -  can always be 
  counted on to answer a question or two, just as any wizard in the game
  will, provided it is asked politely. Remember, they are busy, as well.

- In consultation with the mentor and the Liege, the new wizard ends his
  student wizard career with a small project which is closely monitored. 
  This project ensures that the fundamentals of coding are being taught
  and understood. Certain mechanics are also learned, like how to script
  and code a quest, or how to make a monster appropriately challenging.

- New wizards may only spend limited time with their mortal characters while
  completing their first project, for answering mails and such. Roughly fifteen
  minutes per day is adequate in most cases. 

- After completion and review of the first project, the wizard works with the
  Liege and other members of the domain in contributing and developing other
  ideas for the domain to pursue within its theme!


What Wizards Can Expect
-----------------------

- All wizards can expect to have some amount of choice in what they choose to
  spend their time working on. However, because of changes in the fundamental
  structure of the game or re-assessment of an area, wizards are required to
  aid their domain in maintaining old areas or making the necessary changes.

- All wizards can expect to have their code reviewed in a timely manner by
  their Liege or the appropriate Arch team. 

- All wizards can expect to be treated with courtesy by their peers.

