Help on the Chamber of Souls.

Welcome. This is where you shall select the body which you shall be
using from this point onward. Or at least until the next time you're
killed *_EVIL_ grin*.

If you're an existing player who just finished getting saved from
Hell by Lars, you've been here before. Examine the various bodies, 
and 'possess' the body you want, then enter the portal. If you enter
an identical body to your old one (same race and gender) you'll land
in your racial starting location. Remember, if you change race or gender,
you lose half of your skills, and will have to go through the width,
height, and features selection again. Don't worry about the rest of
this file if you're an old-timer, you probably know this stuff better
than I do.

If you're a first time player, here's a tip: Read every help file you
can get your hands on! Now, to this room. You'll select a body to use
in the game here by possessing one of those available. There should be
two of every race, one male, one female. Note there are no neutered bodies.
While neutering does exist in the game, it's not something that we 
particularly encourage.

A thing or two to bear in mind when choosing a body. First off, Genesis
has a very high combat content, and a player's physical 'stats' are very
important. There are 6 stats in Genesis. Strength, Dexterity, Constitution,
Intelligence, Wisdom and Discipline.

Strength:     Basically dictates how much you can carry/push/lift etc.
Dexterity:    How agile you are.
Constitution: How 'healthy' you are. It's biggest influence is on your
'hit points', or how much damage you can take.
Intelligence: Pretty self-explanatory. It effects things like your
'mana', or how many spells you can cast, if you join a magic-user guild.
Wisdom:       A bit tricky to define, short of the obvious meaning, how wise
you are. It affects a number of things, such as how good you are at
casting spells.
Discipline:   Another one that's a bit difficult to explain, it describes
basically you're courage and ability to keep your wits about you.

I explain this, because different races are better/poorer in different stats.
Dwarves, for example, have an excellent strength and con, but very poor
dexterity. Where gnomes, on the other hand, are completely the opposite.
The relative stat advantages for the different races can be easily seen
by examining the different race bodies around you, so keep it in mind when
you're selecting a body.

Ok, now that you've understood at least a little how your new body will
effect your 'game', all that's left is to 'possess' a body, for example:
'possess male dwarf', and you've got yourself a body. After that, do
'enter portal'. As mentioned above, if you're an existing player, you'll
be in your racial start location in the game. If you're a new player,
you'll be moved to the Hall of Mirrors to start customizing your new
body.

Enjoy the game!