HELP FOR FEATURE SELECTION

    In this room, you are supposed to choose the adjectives used to make you
seem more unique, also referred to as features or attributes. Take, for
example, a long-armed black-haired human. The adjectives 'long-armed' and
'black-haired' separate him from other humans (unless there are other
humans with the same adjectives, that happens sometimes, despite the large
number of possible combinations).

    Adjectives are listed according to category. For example, there are
categories like 'EYES' which contain several eye descriptions, 'HAIR', and
'AGE'. These break down the large number of available adjectives into
shorter lists to choose from.

    There are two main things to keep in mind when choosing adjectives.
        FIRST: You can only have two adjectives. You are free to select
               several different combinations here, replacing old ones with
               new ones to 'try them on', but once you've decided which two
               you'd like, you're stuck with them.
        SECOND: You must choose your adjectives from different categories.
                This may seem odd, but it's to prevent idiotic looking
                descriptions like 'blue-haired black-haired elf'.

    The first thing you should do, is use the 'list' command to see what's
available in the way of adjectives. This will list all categories and all
the adjectives they contain. This list is a bit long, so you might want to
do 'list categories'. This will provide you with a list of available
categories. If you know what categories you'd like to see more of, you can
use the list command on specific categories. 'list eyes' for example, will
provide a list of nothing but eye adjectives.

    Now, you've seen most of the adjectives available, if not all, and have
decided which ones you want. It's time to start trying them on for size.
For this, use the 'select' command. You have to specify two things when
selecting an adjective. Whether it's your first or second adjective you're
changing, and what that adjective is. For example, if you wanted to be a
'ancient thick-armed goblin', you'd do 'select first ancient' and 'select
second thick-armed'. As I mentioned before, you can change them around as
much as you want here until you finalize your selection by continuing from
here.

    Ok, assuming you've picked a couple adjectives, you probably want to know
what you look like. Try doing 'examine reflection'. Not only will it show
you what you look like, it will also tell you if you've set your adjectives
right.

    If you forget a command and don't want to go through all this stuff
again, 'look in' the eye of souls, and you'll get an abbreviated version.

    Finally, once you've finished juggling your features and are happy with
your description (remember, the only way to change them is if you die and
select a body of different race or gender) simply 'enter pool' to continue
on your merry old way. If you're a new player, that will be getting some
starting skills. If you're just coming from shaking hands with Lars, you'll
be cut loose back into the game, fresh for vengeance on your killer ;).

    Also, it's possible for you to return to the last room you came from.
Probably one of the halls of mirrors. It'll give you a second chance to set
your length/height if you've decided you've changed your mind. You can do
that with the 'back' or 'return' command.
