
This file describes the general philosophy behind wizardhood, how to
become wizard and why you have to play the game before you are allowed
to add new things to it yourself.

Wizards are people familiar with the mud, who are allowed to add new
things to it. To become a wizard is to be given the right to code.

To become familiar with the mud, players must visit and adventure in most 
of its parts. Only when this is accomplished is the user behind the player
deemed capable of adding new things that will fit nicely in in the game.

LPmud has traditionally been a combat oriented game. To become wizard a
player has had to do repetetive and often boring tasks, like killing the
same monster over and over again. Even for those that have found this to
be an enjoyable type of playing, it has had one major practical drawback.
Players have usually concentrated on playing in a very small part of the mud
and many have become wizard without really having seen more than that
small part. 

The sole purpose of making it an effort to become wizard is therefore to
ensure quality in new parts of the game. There is no purpose in making it
hard to become wizard just because it is supposed to be hard or supposed
to take a lot of time. We all play and code in LPmud to have fun, useless
hard work is something most of us expect to get paid in cash for.

The wizards are specifically not an elite club of people that is to snort
at the mere mortals and directly interfere with there playing. Any wizard
found doing that is firstly warned and then expelled from the mud. The idea
is for everyone to have fun, not for some to have fun on others behalf. 
Wizards are there to serve the mortals in making a better game, nothing else.

So, how is this accomplished? 
What has changed since earlier versions of the mudlib?

The key to the new system is the changed experience point system. This is
documented in 'experience' and what it basically does is to divide xp in
normal xp and combat xp. Combat xp are special in that:

1) It is the only xp lost when a player dies.
2) The bigger ratio combat/normal xp the less xp actually gained when
   killing a monster, ie getting more combat xp.

The old quest system with an obligatory number of quests is removed, instead
there is the 'normal xp'. Normal xp are given to players upon exploring and
solving quests. Normal xp is special in that:

1) Once gained they can never be lost.
2) They can never be gained twice for doing the same thing.

To support the second point, each domain get 100 bits in each player. These 
bits are supposed to be used for marking of what a certain player has
already been given normal xp for. The bits are documented in 'quest_bits'.

Some immidiate consequences of this:

1) It is no longer possible to make xp-pumps. If almost all xp a player has
   is combat xp, then it is almost impossible to get more combat xp.

2) Gathering great weapons and armours are of a lot less importance.

3) It is rarely usefull to kill monsters for the sole purpose of killing. If
   a player have to fight there is a reason to fight.

4) The significance of death diminishes. However as combat xp do count as
   xp, something is lost. Also losing all belongings is often a major setback.

5) Lessening the importance of combat makes nonfighter classes more
   attractive. This is also encouraged by the new team possibility. See
   docs on 'teams'.

6) Making an attractive area forces wizards to write systems of minor and
   major quests. This will hopefully cause a better and more interesting game.

Quests can be as simple as solving a riddle or finding something in a hidden
compartment, it can be as complex as gathering lots of tools and gadgets to
accomplish a major task. The amount of xp should reflect the complexity
and the amount of time a player would have to spend to solve the quest.

To become wizard, a player must solve a final quest for immortality.
This quest will demand that the average stat's of the player is more than
a certain value. The chance of solving this final quest will be dependant
on the average stats.

Players are graded by their stats. There is six basic stats and three guild
specific stats. A stat is a number between 0-150. To have any chance at all
of solving the 'immortal quest' a player must have an average of 90. If the
player has an average of 100, success is ensured.

A scale for normal xp is given in 'xp_scale'. This gives some guidelines
as to how much xp to give for different tasks. 




