RANKS AND LEVELS
================

This document describes the system of ranks and levels of this game. The
ranks of the players determine their rights and position in the game. The
level (within the rank) is just a number to indicate their position within
that rank. Having a higher level than someone else does not give you extra
rights, whereas another rank will always include other rights (and tasks).
An example might simplify things. The rank of the ruler of a domain is
liege and within that rank, his/her lever may for instance be 35. It may be
so that people of different rank have the same level.

The following ranks are possible and for each rank, the mimumum and maximum
level are listed. Some ranks have only one level though.

        Rank            Level

	Mortal player         0     (not really a wizard-rank, but still)
	Apprentice            1
	Pilgrim          2 -  8
	Retired wizard        9
	Full wizard     10 - 24
	Mage            20 - 29
        Steward         25 - 29
	Liege           30 - 44
	Archwizard      45 - 49
	Keeper               50

Below follows a short description of each rank.

APPRENTICE

  An apprentice wizard is a wizard that is not a member of any domain.
  This is the first rank someone gets after becomming a wizard. While being
  an apprentice, the wizard is supposed to familiarize himself with the
  duties and abilities of a wizard and read the necessary help pages and
  manual files. An apprentice should apply to a domain and when accepted,
  he will become a member of that domain.

PILGRIM

  A pilgrim is a guest of the game. Pilgrims do not contribute to the game
  by code, but they are in the game to socialize with people and to observe.
  They are appointed by the administration of the game. Pilgrimhood is open
  to invitation only. Applying for pilgrim status is useless, so having
  successfully executed the commands ftp, tar and make, i.e. being the
  keeper of another mud, is not a guaranteed reason to become a pilgrim
  somewhere else.

RETIRED WIZARD

  When wizards no longer want to be active, they can retire themselves or
  be retired. They then leave their domain and lose their coding rights.
  It is possible that a retired wizard later returns to active coding.

FULL WIZARD (also called NORMAL WIZARD)

  The full wizards or domain wizards are the backbone of the wizard community.
  They are members of a domain and they are supposed to code the stuff that
  mortal players like so much. After having been accepted into a domain, the
  wizard can write in their own directory to create things. The liege can
  grant further write-rights with sanctions or by giving the wizard global
  domain write access. Everything wizards code must be approved by his liege
  prior to its introduction to the game.

MAGE

  The mage-rank is an honourary rank and that rank is usually granted only
  to people in a few categories. They are people who have contributed to the
  LPmud gamedriver or mudlib or to mudding in general, domain wizards who
  deserve a special rank due to special abilities or services rendered and
  finally to people formerly in the administration. They cannot loose their
  coding rights, even if they leave the domain they are a member of. Other
  than that, mages are similar to full wizards.

STEWARD

  Stewards are assistant lieges. They can execute various commands the Liege
  of a domain can execute, though they will remain subject to the Liege. In
  general, the steward of a domain will assist the Liege in his tasks. This
  is not an honourary position.

LIEGE

  A liege is the ruler of a domain. As leader of the team of wizards, the
  liege is ultimately responsible for all that goes on in the domain and for
  all the code produced by the wizards of the domain. He manages the domain,
  drafts new members, expels old members and makes the key decisions about
  the development of the domain.

ARCHWIZARD

  Together with the keepers, the archwizards form the administration of the
  game. They make the ultimate decisions. Each archwizard has one or more
  tasks and fields of responsibility.

KEEPER

  The keepers are the ultimate deities. They chair the archwizards council
  and deal with global policy decisions. Other than that, they can have
  their own tasks as archwizards have, though that is not necessarily.
