Until now all players have started all their LPmud sessions in one
single room, /room/church. In LPmud 3.0 we are changing this. Players
will start in different places depending on race and guild membership.
	
New players will start in separate rooms determined by their race.
This will be the place where the player starts his LPmud sessions
until he finds a place that allows him to change the starting point.

Every domain will be allowed to have one starting point, either a
default starting location or a temporary starting location. A default
starting locations is a place where the player starts his sessions
every time he logs on, until he chooses to change it. This is
typically used by guilds to allow members to start the game in the
guild. This function could possibly later be used for allowing a
mortal to own a private house or room in the game and start there.

Temporary starting locations can be used for implementing inns or
other places where the player starts only the next time he logs on.
There should always be a cost for staying at the temporary starting
location. Changing to a new starting location should be made by the
player, i.e you may not change it without the player wanting you to do
it. For consistency the command for changing default starting location
should be 'start here'.

In order to start using a starting location, the wizard must get it
registered by an archwizard or a keeper. Otherwise it will not work.

Wizards will start the game in a special room. The reason for this is
to minimize the contact between wizards and mortals.

The following functions are available for setting starting locations:


int set_default_start_location(str)

Sets the defaults starting location to the room defined by str. Str
should be a string containing the pathname of the room. This function
sets the variable default_start_location in the player object. A check
is made to ensure that a registered location is given as argument. If
it is not registered 0 is returned, otherwise the return value is 1.


int set_temp_start_location(str)

Sets the temporary starting location to the room defined by str. Str
should be a string containing the pathname of the room. The function
sets the variable temp_start_location in the player object. A check is
made to ensure that a registered location is given as argument. If it
is not registered 0 is returned, otherwise the return value is 1. The
variable temp_start_location is set to 0 next time the player logs on.

Example:
this_player()->set_temp_start_location("/players/fatty/hut");


The following commands are available:

allow_default place

Adds the room "place", which should be a pathname, to the array
containing valid default starting locations. A check is made to see
that the file really exists. This command is only available to
archwizards and keepers.


allow_temp place

Adds the room "place", which should be a pathname, to the array
containing valid temporary starting locations. A check is made to see
that the file really exists. This command is only available to
archwizards and keepers.
