                                  Dracula                                  
                            ancient yellow paged                           
                                                                           
The history of Dracula Overlord of Calia
Many,many years before..at the begging of time Forces of Evil ruled the country.
It was then one forcefull overlord called Dracula.His name was fiared everywhere.
He wore a black,mysterious cloak and his dark,evil eyes clouded his face.
The people suffered under his depressing kingdom.The taxes were great and noone dared
to confront him.They knew he was the mightiest of all.A pure devil in body and soul.
Dracula lived in a far away castle up the Carpathian mountains.The path leading there
was almost immpocible to be walked.Only wolves and animals of the night could reach
the Black castle as it was called.
Years and years pasted.Mysery and terror was apparent all over the lair.Death was
it's symbol.Somebody had to do something.But who?
Then one day something magic happened that changed everything.Dracula was travelling here and there collecting taxes.
His heart seemed to be empty,out of rock.No matter how hard the people begged him to
show mercy to them, he seemed to hear nothing.
So that day when the small villager explained him that he couldn't pay the tax cause
he hadn't made enough money by selling shoes the Dark Overlord got very angry.
He was ready to put an end to the poor's boys life when a beautiful girl came out of the
   house crying and begging him to kill her than her brother.Dracula was very impressed by
the courage of that lady but even more by her beauty.This was the first time he felt he
had a heart.Something new,wonderfull started warming his heart.He was in love.
I will spare your life he said sudaintly.The boy was very surprised.The girled smiled
   carefully.Dracula turned his back and left quickly.He hasn't cleared yet what have happened.
From that day he was no more the same.He was good to the people,helpfull and kind.
At first they were suspicious about him,he could be lying, but then everyone accepted the
new Dracula as friend and good leader.
The thrill has it that Dracula never used the name Black Overlord again.He instead
joined the famous and honourable guild of Calia and seaked forgiveness for his crimes
in the arms of Caliana.It is also said that he became powerful and respected in that guild, a true Calian Warrior.

copyright 1456 B.C.  Dracula Exalted Member of Caliana's Elite Guard

Written by Dracula.
