                                  History                                  
        A Short Overview and History of the Guild of the Travellers        
                                                                           
For many years, the humans of Genesis roamed the lands, fighting their battles for the forces of Good and of Evil.  They were successful, and many of the names of these humans have passed down through history.  But all was not well in the land of Genesis.

There was no common link for these humans, and they worked individually, without the comfort of kinship or companionship.  For a while, they had assumed a position of pre-eminence amongst the numerous inhabitants of Genesis, but this situation would not and could not last.

In the East, the feeble elves, who had long been under the shadow of the better races, realised the strength that numbers bring, so they banded together to form the Wildrunner Guild.  This Guild was a first in Genesis, and was to prove to be a great move on the part of the elves.  Sharing this common link of their racial guild, they aided one another, and quickly usurped the mantle of power that had been shared by a few humans.

When the humans realised what had happened, they were saddened by their loss of power, and hung their heads in shame.  Indeed, had it not been for the great wizard Varl and a few faithful humans, the human race would have all but disappeared as a force in Genesis.

Varl gathered together a few trusty humans, including Hazelnut and Deproelius, and set up a Guild for all humans in the small village of Cove.  This Guild was off the beaten track, and it took many people a long time to find, but this did not matter, as it was a Guild of Travellers.

For a time, under the stewardship of Varl and his mortal advisors, the Guild flourished, and threatened the elves for the position of the dominant race in Genesis.  But then, tragedy struck the Guild.  The great wizard and founding father of the Guild, Varl, was forced to leave, and shortly afterwards, Deproelius went on a long journey of many months, and Hazelnut transcended the mortal world, to take up a position with the very wizards themselves.

When Deproelius came back from his travels, he found that the Guild had stagnated in his absence, and a new power bloc within the Guild had arisen.  There was much strive and bickering within the ranks of the Travellers, and once more things looked grim for the mighty race of Humanity, the original race from which all others had sprung, as mutations and deviations.

When all looked lost, a Traveller who had not been seen for some time came out of the wastes of Atuan, using the mighty powers of wizardry.  For this Traveller, Vladimir, had followed in Hazelnut's footsteps, and had followed the path to become an immortal, to become a Wizard.  

Vladimir had seen the problems that the Guild faced, and he decided to try and rectify them.  Gathering together the leaders of the two power blocs, the original Traveller and Advisor to Varl, Deproelius, and human who had risen to take his place in his absence, Xar, Vladimir held council to decide upon the future of the Guild.

This council went for many days and nights, with much argument from all sides, until it was decided that a Council of Travellers, numbering three, would be set up to help guide the Guild, and work with Vladimir.  For this Council were chosen Deproelius, Xar, and Dread, three of the leading Travellers of the time.  This Council set to work, gathering suggestions from other Travellers and discussing them, making suggestions to Vladimir.

Then as has happened so often in the history of the Travellers, disaster struck... one of the Council members, Dread, was struck down by the Gods, and was not seen again.  After another mighty council meeting, a successor for Dread was found... Gorboth, who was given Dread's position.

With the accenscion of Gorboth to the Council, council meetings were held once more, with much discussion and resolution of problems facing the Guild.  As a final matter, the Library of the Travellers Guild, empty for so long, was opened up to the Travellers, to fill with histories and stories of the Realms.

Written by Deproelius.
