                                Pits_of_Evil                               
         Some of the darker more foreboding places where evil lurks        
                                                                           
Pits of Evil
 
 
The Dark Dominion
 
In the land of Kalad there is a dark foreboding place.  It goes
by the name of Dark Dominion.  Little information is known of
this area because it is within the bowels of the earth and the
entrance to it has been concealed.  This was probably done by
mankind to prevent the unwary traveller from stumbling into it
and meeting their demise.  For surely, once you enter you may
never leave again.  It is rumoured that many strange creatures
live in darkness there.  There have been tales of drow elves,
mind flayers and even golems.  It is also said that a great
dragon inhabits those depths.  There is a power there.  A power
that would surely seal your fate there, if the evil beings don't. 
If you lack the skill and ingenuity to exit this place don't
count on being able to use magical means to take you home.
 
 
Moria
 
A long time ago in Durin's days, when he was King under the
Mountain, elf and dwarven kind lived in peace and prosperity
together in what is now called Moria.  It was a beautiful place
in good times.  But those days are long gone.  Now it is a dark
place of deathly silence.  Beware the Drums in the Deep!  If you
hear them, run.  For troll, uruk, and orc hordes infest the deeps
there.  One of the more prominent tribes being the Red Claws,
with their Captain, Bolg, son of Azog.  But there are worse
things born of evil within the Mines.  A dragon that lies in
slumber and the mighty Balrog with eyes of flame and wings of
shadow.  There being no greater champion of evil save the Dark
Lord himself.  The Mines of Moria are vast and deep and very
dangerous.  Only hardy adventurers should go there.  And beware,
the watcher in the lake likes to keep the gates closed.  If you
find them open and venture in, you may be trapped there.
 
 
Mysty Mountains
 
If you were to travel through the Mysty Mountains in the land of
Rohvanion, at first glance, you may not notice any presence of
life.  Within the cracks and crevices though, evil goblins
abound.  Goblins that like to feed on fresh flesh.  Travelling
through the mountain passes can be tiring and it is easy to lose
your way.  Stick to the path if you wish to avoid harms way. 
Legend has it that many years ago Angmar fled to these parts. 
Some say his followers still might exist.  There is little else
to remark on this area, except that some crazy rock climbers have
been sighted by travellers passing through.  The Anduin and
Mirkwood lies to the east of the mountains and to the west, the
great Eastroad.
 
 
Legion of Darkness
 
In Terel, an army is gathering.  They go by the name, Legion of
Darkness.  Even though they have not made their presence known
yet, the residents of Calathin are becoming scared.  There have
been many deaths in the area and rumours are flying.  Know that
this army awaits the signal to attack within a series of tunnels
below an old mansion just outside of Calathin.  Who knows what
the Warlord Mergula's plans are or what he is waiting for. 
Whatever they are, it probably means pending doom for the
citizens of Calathin.
 
written by
Xar, Traveller of Legend and Councillor

Written by Xar.
