                                   Kalad                                   
                         a supposed land of humans                         
                                                                           
A traveller companion of mine once related a tale to me. A tale of a land
devoted solely to humans, biased against the inferior germs who dare to 
call themselves sentient. This land he called Kalad. Kalad itself is 
almost totally unexplored, but its main port city of Kabal is a large sea-
port. Kabal itself is a city almost to large to imagine, combining 7 
seperate districts of all humans. The districts are: Port, Caravan, Trade,
Market, Central, Noble, and maybe he told me there were only six districts.
Oh well, back to the story....
	These districts each held a different variety of life, yet they all
got along and cooperated for the good of humankind. Being the largest and
most inhabited ville in Kalad, the Kabalites had an enormous ego. They
decided to make Kabal a seperate continent from Kalad to show everyone how
incredibly powerful and controlled they were. When they began their
secession, the rest of the country grew understandably distressed. They 
decided to unleash their hidden power in Kabal. Out of nowhere, the rulers
of Kabal began to die, victims of some unknown plague. Rumours of elite
assassins and guilds of thieves began taking hold of the public, and soon
the attempt to create a seperate city-state was over. This was just the 
beginning of the troubles in Kabal, though. 
	The leaders of Kabal were now very disinterested in keeping strict
laws, as each time a strong move was made, someone died. Instead, a gang
of lawless thieves calling themselves the Knights of Thanar began illicit
trade within the city of Kabal. It is rumoured anything wanted could be 
bought from these '
Knights'. They weren't alone in their struggles against the structure of 
Kabal. More rumours began to pour into the city of villages of giants, 
underground settlements of dark-skinned elves, settlements of equally dark-
gnomes, and most mysterious, a race of humanoids possessing tentacled heads
and enslaving all races with a strange form of uncombatable magic.
	Go forth travellers, find this town, this land of fortunes. Bring
back the truth, bring your stories back here to corroborate what has already
been heard. 

May the Dust From Your Boots Never Cloud Your Vision,
Milashk, Faithful Scribe of the Travellers

Written by Milashk.
