                                 MinasIthil                                
                          Restoration of a journal                         
                                                                           




The Fall of Minas Ithil, scribed and restored by Auvryndar on Narquelie 22,
3017, and transcribed herein by Angelique on Nenime 11, 3018.

The following is a restoration of a journal captured during the fall of Minas
Ithil, and the rise of Minas Morgul. It is presented in its' entirety, though
some portions were illegible in the original version, and are thusly noted
herein. The original understandable content of the journal has been edited 
only in so far as removing unimportant gibberish which does not concern an
account of our history. The actual text presented here is unaltered from its'
original form. To our best guess, the original author was a lieutenant in the
armies of Gondor stationed at Minas Ithil.

Narquelie 15th, 1999

Anathelas, my love, I have arrived safely over a three-day ride here at Minas
Ithil. I will be assuming command of my unit shortly, and look forward to my
duties. Although I do not agree with King Earnil II, he is a descendant of
Telumehtar Umbardacil, and I will obey his orders to remain here. Rest assured
that what I do is a good thing, for I am needed here to defend the lands of my
people. I will send you messages regularly, and I send you all my love.

Narquelie 19th, 1999

I have assumed my duties of my unit, though the men are a little insubordinate
under a new command. Nevertheless, I shall guide them with a firm hand.

Hisime 4, 1999

While the winter has been rather mild this year, I am concerned that it is 
about to take a turn for the worst. Dark clouds brew out of the East, and the
men talk of snowfall. Speaking of the men, they are slowly adapting to my
leadership style. The Captain was quite pleased with my progress, and commented
on our teamwork. Perhaps when my assignment here has ended, I shall be granted
a promotion.

###The journal becomes illegible here...

Nenime 9th, 2000

The winter storms have finally let up, and the Tuile thaw has begun to move
in. Most peculiar, though, how those dark clouds still hang in the East. 
Perhaps we are in for some more rain yet.

Nenime 11th, 2000

The dark clouds in the East have mysteriously begun to move westwards toward
us, yet something seems unnatural about them. This morning our Captain sought
audience with those within the Tower of Minas Ithil. They attempted to descry
the portent of these dark clouds in the East, but the 'palantir' was unable to
penetrate them. Rumours have begun to spread among the men with tales of the
WitchKing of Angmar, for it has been well known that he retreated back into
Mordor and gathered his Ringwraiths since 1980. A select few Rangers of the
North will be sent tomorrow to spy upon the activities of the Dark Lord. I
can only pray that they find nothing.

Nenime 15th, 2000

The men grow restless and more and more concerned about the dark clouds in 
the East. It has been about three days since that band of Rangers set out to
spy upon Mordor, and no word.

Sulime 1st, 2000

A lone Ranger has returned today, however the men are in a state of panic. The
Ranger seems to have suffered the touch of a Ringwraith. A large festering,
malignant wound in his side was sick with infection, the Nazgul's poison. He
was taken to our Captain. I am going to attempt to learn what I can.

Sulime 2nd, 2000

Grim news, my love! Whilst the Ranger, (whose name I have discovered is Hourne)
lay upon his deathbed, he told tale of an army which marches toward us from
Mordor by the pass of Cirith Ungol! We are in a state of emergency while the
preparations for battle are made. Messengers have been dispatched to King
Earnil II, and we await reinforcements from the West. I am certain that with
their aid, Minas Ithil will not fall to the Dark Lord.

###The journal becomes illegible here...

Yavannie 4th, 2000

The armies of Mordor besiege us day and night. There have been few direct
assaults upon our walls, and their numbers grow everyday. No aid has come from
the West. Damned if I didn't know that we couldn't count on that King! We have
supplies to last us many months, but I fear the Dark Lord may have more. Now
comes a battle of patience. However, there has been no sign of the Ringwraiths.
Most mysterious.

###The journal becomes illegible here...

Viresse 20th, 2001

It would seem the King has some wit about him still after all. Reinforcements
finally arrived today, but only twenty by ten score. At least they brought
supplies with them. We were growing concerned that we would soon deplete our
stocks.

Lotesse 16th, 2001

It would seem the Dark Lord has only been waiting for the right moment. He
must know that we have been reinforced by now. This day, the Dark Lord has
brought yet another army to bear against us. Men from the South have arrived,
numbering fifty by ten score. We are seriously outnumbered once again. 
Messengers are being dispatched once again to the West for aid, though given
how long it took the last time, I am doubtful anything will come of it.

Nurie 7th, 2001

The armies of the Dark Lord have stepped up their harrassment tactics. Men die
upon our walls from stray arrows everyday. I myself have lost two men from my
company, and I grieve their loss every night. At least we slay more of their
numbers from within our stronghold than they do ours. However, our supplies 
are once again diminishing with our increased numbers.

Nurie 24th, 2001

It would seem that the Dark Lord's patience has ended today. All was quiet this
morning and a thick fog blanketed the pass. Suddenly, as I was patrolling the
walls checking with my men, the clouds parted and a blazing red aura pierced
the sky and seemed to focus upon us. A huge beast from ancient legends, a Wurm,
emerged forth, and I saw the most terrifying thing I have ever witnessed. A
black-robed figure sat mounted upon the beast as it hovered there, and as it
drew back its' hood, there was nothing but emptiness! The WitchKing of Angmar,
the Lord of the Nazgul has returned! And as he gazed upon us, he cut loose a 
shrill cry which froze my blood. My men and I stood motionless upon the walls,
unaware of the direct charge of the dark armies as they emerged from the mists,
frozen in absolute terror. Finally, my instincts snapped and I came to. I
rallied my men to defend the walls. The siege was over, the assault had begun.

Urime 13th, 2001

They assault us day and night. I have lost nearly half of my men, and the
enemy seems without limit. The Nazgul can be seen circling the skies above us
upon their black steeds, cutting loose their foul battlecries, and the dark
armies make song to match my grim heart.

Urime 15th, 2001

I was wounded today my love. Don't fret, it's nothing serious. A stray orc
arrow managed to slip past my mail and grazed my left shoulder. I'll be all
right. I must, my men depend upon me.

###The journal becomes illegible here...

Ringare 11th, 2001

We are losing the battle, and reinforcements have not arrived. We have 
completely exhausted our supplies, even with careful rationing. Both sides
have suffered grievous losses, but still we lose. There seems no end to them.
Soon I fear for the worst. What few messengers we could spare were dispatched
to warn the West of our imminent doom and to evacuate the lands of Ithilien.
Should we fall, the Dark Lord will have gained a foothold on the West and none
shall be safe.

Ringare 20th, 2001

This day was the greatest assault yet. This time, the Ringwraiths themselves
led the assault! My men fled in horror, and but a handful stood with me upon
the walls. I lie now upon my deathbed, inflicted with the accursed poison of
the Nazgul. I know not how the battle goes, but I can make a pretty good guess.
These may be my last words. I slip in and out of dreaming as the sound of the
battle rages from outside. I am weary, too weary. I pray death meets me quietly
and with open arms. I shall try to ignore the wracking pain this poison is
inflicting upon me.

###The journal becomes illegible here...

###Minas Ithil fell upon Narvinye 2nd, 2002, just a few days after the last
    entry.

Scribed and restored by Auvryndar.

Written by Angelique.
