                                  Knights                                  
                         Solamnic Knights of Krynn                         
                                                                           
	This book will explain the origins of the Knights of Solamnia, what
the guild is, and the reasons behind them...

	In the land of Krynn three great gods.  Paladine, god of goodness and
pure light, Gilean, god of neutrality, and Takhisis, goddess of deceit and
evil.  Intent on controlling Krynn all for herself, Takhisis recruited dark
priests and warlocks to steal the eggs of good dragons and corrupt them
to create an army.  Soon the draconians were born and people flocked to
her banner for greed and power.  Paladine sensed her desires and with the
help of his twin sons, Kiri-Jolith and Habbakuk, they too created an army
to oppose Takhisis.  They were known as the Knights of Solamnia.

	Behind the ideals of a wise man, Valimus Solamnus, the Knights of
Solamnia portected the weak, gave aid to those in need, and fought the
minions of Takhisis.  They were brilliant fighters, both in mind and body.
They excelled in almost all forms of weaponry: polearms, knives, clubs and
especially swords.  They had both the ability to fight with a shield and
with two weapons at once.

	To maintain order and security among the Knights the Oath and Measure
was written and is the basis for what a Knight lives for.  Knights valued
honour above all else and so the Oath was made.  "Est Sularus Oth Mithas."
My honour is my life.  Without honour life is meaningless.  Knights would
die rather than live dishonourably.  The Measure is a set of guidelines
each Knight follows to strive to live up to the Oath.

	The structure of the Knights is that of a triumvirate and one Grand-
master.  The triumvirate is formed from three distinct Orders: Rose, Sword,
and Crown.  The Crown Order are the fighters with superb skills and is
watched over by Habbakuk.  The Sword Order is the most spiritual and is
knowledgable in clerical spells as well as good fighting skills.  The Sword
Order patron is Kiri-Jolith.  The Rose Order is the highest Order and out-
ranks both Crown and Sword Order.  Usually noble born, not only are they
skilled in clerical magic, but also highly skilled in fighting.  Paladine
himself watches over the Rose Order.

	The Solamnic Knights are loose dictatorship with one representative
from each Order forming a conclave.  The conclave hands out punishment and
rewards to Knights depending on the Knight's actions.  To ensure that the
Knights of Solamnia stay true to their goal, all Knights swear alligance
to the conclave and would follow them to death itself.

Written by Kayen Makalis, Knight of the Crown
*further information can be read in the library on Vingaard Keep and the*
*guild book south of the main hall*

Written by Kayen.
