                                  Rangers                                  
                        The Rangers of the Westlands                       
                                                                           
		The Rangers of the Westlands

	In the land of Middle-Earth there is a mighty war raging, and the
future of all the goodly races are at stake. This book will try to
discribe a band of warriors who have choosen to protect the goodly races,
and have choosen to stand against an unspeakable evil.

	Rangers are the defenders of the free peoples, standing against the
encroaching doom that issues out of Minas Morgul's gates. Rangers defend
their homeland any way they can, with whatever is avalabile. In accordance
with this, Rangers are a diverse group, having skills in many varied areas.
They can use a sword, as well as some simple magics. They can move 
stealthily, as well as having a knowledge of the native flora and fauna.

	Rangers will take any advantage they can when fighting the Dark lord's
minions. They've been known to throw sand in their enemies eyes as well as 
delivering a well placed knee to the 'family jewels'. They'll trip their
opponent (thus taking the upper hand while their foe withers on the ground)
and try to disarm them. This may seem the tactics of honorless men, but
nothing could be further from the truth. Rangers know that those they fight
against know not the meaning of honor, thus waste not their honor on such.

	The Rangers are gripped in a life-or-death struggle and realize the
greater honor lies in living to fight another day, being able to vanquish
their foes and defend the innocent(who often never know their being defended).
Glory is not for a ranger, for he does what he does not for reknown, but
merely for he could do nothing else.

	Rangers are a vigilant and tireless group. Their job is often a 
thankless one, and it requires great patience and strength of character. 
They will never lay down their arms until the foul scourage Sauron is 
defeated or the breath leaves their lungs. Thus the life of the ranger is
not for everyone, but for those who cannot stand idlely by while the
Dark lord impements his foul plans, the Rangers may indeed be your calling.
			Hail the Free Peoples!!!

-Written by Stryder - Ranger of Ithilien -

Written by Stryder.
