                                    Cove                                   
              A short history of the coastal village of Cove.              
                                                                           
Until now, the full history of the Village of Cove has been known by but a few learned Travellers.  As a member of the mighty Traveller Guild, you should be aware of the history of the village that your guild calls home, so that you may know its place in the world.

Cove is a thriving sea-side village, situated on the northern tip of the continent of Atuan.  It is the home to the mighty Travellers Guild, a guild that has brought much trade and prosperity to what had once been nought but a tiny hamlet, eaking out a meagre existance from the sea.

Years ago, a group of nomads made it through the inhospitable wastes of the deserts of Atuan, and discovered a sheltered bay, surrounded by high cliffs.  This bay formed an ideal harbour, and the sea provided a bountiful harvest of fish.  The nomads settled there, and the hamlet of Cove was founded.

The nomads, tired from their travels, didn't populate the surrounding lands, and  Cove remained small.  To the west, the village of Gar grew, and with the founding of the Dragon-ship route between Gar and the city of Re Albi, Gar spread and grew in power.

With the opening up of the continent of Atuan to strangers, hearty men journeyed east, and north, through the mountains to the hamlet of Cove.  These men were captivated by the area, and bought large tracts of land from the descendants of the nomads.  A large manor was built on the cliffs overlooking the hamlet, and the Travellers Guild was formed.

With the building of the Guild, merchants travelled to Cove, and it was transformed into a village, with shops servicing the travellers who made their home in the manor.  Adventurers settled in Cove, including the Marshal Alexander, possessor of a mighty weapon called a 'peace-maker', and his trusty sergeant.  These adventurers formed a guard for the village to protect its inhabitants, and an old traveller named Furley set up an orphanage, for the orphaned children of travellers who died on their travels.

Under the watchful eye of the Marshal, the village is rapidly expanding, and people are settling in farms in the lands south of Cove.  In recognition of Cove's place in the world, far-away cities have opened up ship routes to Cove, and now ships from places as far away as Palanthas, the Shire, and the newly discovered continent of Kalad routinely drop their anchor in the sheltered bay of Cove, to enjoy the delights of this fair village, and to take its bold inhabitants to magical, far away lands.

Go forth and travel, my friends, but always remember your home here in Cove.

Deproelius,
Supreme Traveller of the Realms.


Written by Deproelius.
